# Visulog

_Tool for analysis and visualization of git logs_

## Presentation

Visulog a tool for analyzing contributions from the members of a team working a a same given project hosted on a git repository. Its goal is to assist teachers for individual grading of students working as a team.

This tool can:

- compute a couple of relevant indicators such as:
  - number of lines or characters added/deleted/changed
  - number of commits
  - number of merge commits.
- analyze the variations of these indicators in time: for instance sum them in a week, compute a daily average or an average in a sliding window, ...
- visualize the indicators as charts (histograms, pie charts, etc.) embedded in a generated web page.
- also posible to count the number of branches created by each group members 

## Already existing similar tools

- [gitstats](https://pypi.org/project/gitstats/)

## Technical means

- The charts are generated by a third party library (maybe a Java library generating pictures, or a javascript library which dynamically interprets the data).
- The data to analyze can be obtained using calls to the git CLI. For instance "git log", "git diff --numstat", and so on.

## Architecture

Visulog contains the following modules:

- data types for storing raw data directly extracted from git history, with relevant parsers
- a generator of numerical series (for the indicators mentioned above)
- a generator of web pages
- a command line program that calls the other modules using the provided command line parameters
- a shared module for configuration object definitions

## Team
    This tool was created by members of group COGITO

## Usage

### Building the project

1. clone the repository
   ```
   git clone git@gaufre.informatique.univ-paris-diderot.fr:adegorre/visulog.git
   ```
   or
   ```
   git clone https://gaufre.informatique.univ-paris-diderot.fr/adegorre/visulog.git
   ```
2. Enter the project folder
   ```
   cd visulog
   ```
3. Only if you are on a SCRIPT computer (in one of the TP rooms):
   ```
   source SCRIPT/envsetup
   ```
   This will setup the GRADLE_OPTS environment variable so that gradle uses the SCRIPT proxy for downloading its dependencies. It will also use a custom trust store (the one installed in the system is apparently broken... ).
4. run gradle wrapper (it will download all dependencies, including gradle itself)
   ```
   ./gradlew build
   ```

### Running the software

Currently, it can be run through gradle too. In order to pass program arguments, you need to pass them behind `--args`:

```
./gradlew run --args='here are my args'
```
1.  *The counntCommit plugin* :Will count the commits of each author in the current branch of the git repository present in the current folder (".").
```
./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countCommits'
```
2. *The countLines plugin* :Will count the lines edited of each author in the current branch of the git repository present in the current folder (".").

```
./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countLines'
```
3. *The countModifiesLines* :Will count the added lines and deleted lines of each author in the current branch of the git repository present in the current folder (".").
```
./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countModifiedLines'
```
Other plugins we have :

4. we can add all the plugins on one line.

```
./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countModifiedLines --addPlugin=countLines --addPlugin=countModifiedLines'
```
we can add options to our plugins to have more informations from them

**OPTIONS:**


* To be able to execute on another git repository , execute the command with the absolute path of the git repository 

```
./gradlew run --args='[absolute path of repository] --addPlugin=countCommits'
```

Options (to be separated by "?") :

- branch:[name of branch]
- merge:true or false
- author:chain of characters
- percentage:true

some options enable our plugin on specific time:

- before:MM/DD/YYYY or MM/DD/YY_HH/MM/SS by default time is 00:00:00
- after:MM/DD/YYYY or MM/DD/YY_HH/MM/SS by default time is 00:00:00

Example :
```
 ./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countCommits?percentage:true'
```

```
 ./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countCommits?merge:true'
```
```
 ./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countCommits?after:09/01/2021'
```
